README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">Sister Resin Craft</h1>

[View live project]()

"Sister Resin Crafts" -  4th  Milestone Project.



<h2>Screenshots:</h2>


# UX
The purpose of this site is to be an e-commerce web application with a fully functional payment system
and authentication system including email confirmations and user profiles. The superuser of the site will have the ability to create, edit and delete items. A registered user of the site will be able to browse the items and place them in a shopping bag and purchase them.
It is designed to be responsive for mobile, tablet and work on all modern browers.
The target audience for this site is for people who like something different from the normal, such as slasher coasters.

# User Stories
The goals of the business are:
1.  Increasing traffic from social media
2.  Creating more content
3.  Customer satisfaction
4.  Loyalty among customers
5.  Growing our online presence
6.  To have growth
7.  To have a good reputation for potential new customers


As a customer I want to:
1.   Learn the background of the company.
2.   For the site to be user friendly and easy to navigate
3.   View a list of products
4.   View details of each product
5.   Easy access to special offers
6.   To keep track on my spending
7.   To Register an account and easily log in and out
8.   To know the refund policy and the terms and conditions
9.   Recover my password
10.  Reviews and ratings from other customers to be easy to locate
11.  To recieve email conformation after registration and after an order
12.  Search for an item
13.  Not to have annoying pop ups
14.  Easy to purchase Items
15.  Easy navigation to Social Media links


As a returning customer I want:
1.  To see the website has been updated and what new items are available
2.  To easily find any promotional offers available including sales.
3.  To be able to contact company directly with any queries or customer order




# Design

## Framework

## Colour Scheme

## Typography

## Icons

## Wireframes

Coasters/Other items/Seasonal page: 

<img src="wireframes/coasterspage.jpg" width="400px">

Home page:

<img src="wireframes/homepage.jpg" width="400px">

## Features


# Technologies Used
Django
allauth==0.41.0 
Pillow
Crispy Forms
Stripe
django-countries

## Front-End


## Back-End

## Libraries


## Testing


### HTML validator
[W3C Markup Validator](https://validator.w3.org/)
All screenshots for testing can be seen in the test folder.



### CSS validator
[W3C Markup Validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator


### PEP8 validator
[W3C Markup Validator](https://www.pythonchecker.com/)


# Compatibility and Responsiveness

# Bugs

# Deployment

ElephantSQL
1. Log in to ElephantSQL.com to access your dashboard.
2. Click “Create New Instance”
3. Give your plan a Name (sister resin crafts)
4. Select the Tiny Turtle (Free) plan
5. Leave the Tags field blank
6. Select “Select Region” which is Europe-west2(London)
7. Then click “Review”
8. Check your details are correct and then click “Create instance”
9. Return to the ElephantSQL dashboard and click on the database instance name for this project
10. In the URL section, clicking the copy icon will copy the database URL to your clipboard.

Heroku 
1. Click New to create a new app
2. Give the app a name(sister-resin-crafts) and select the region closest to you(Europe). When    you’re done, click Create app to confirm.
3. Open the Settings tab
4. Add the config var DATABASE_URL, and for the value, copy in your database url from ElephantSQL

Gitpod
1. In the terminal, install dj_database_url and psycopg2:
    pip3 install dj_database_url==0.5.0 psycopg2
2. Update the requirements.txt file with the newly installed packages:
    pip freeze > requirements.txt
3. In the settings.py file, import dj_database_url underneath the import for os
    import os
    import dj_database_url
4. Scroll to the DATABASES section and update it to the following code, so that the original connection to sqlite3 is commented out and we connect to the new ElephantSQL database instead:
    # DATABASES = {
    #     'default': {
    #         'ENGINE': 'django.db.backends.sqlite3',
    #         'NAME': os.path.join(BASE_DIR, 'db.sqlite3'),
    #     }
    # }
     
    DATABASES = {
     'default': dj_database_url.parse('your-database-url-here')
    }

5. In the terminal, type python3 manage.py showmigrations
6. Migrate the database models to the new database using python3 manage.py migrate
7. Load in the fixtures, categories first.
    python3 manage.py loaddata categories
    python3 manage.py loaddata products
8. Create a superuser for your new database
    python3 manage.py createsuperuser
9. Delete database from settings.py and reconnect to the local sqlite database.
    DATABASES = {
     'default': {
         'ENGINE': 'django.db.backends.sqlite3',
         'NAME': os.path.join(BASE_DIR, 'db.sqlite3'),
     }
 }
 
 ElephantSQL

1. On the ElephantSQL page for the database, in the left side navigation, select “BROWSER”
2. Click the Table queries button, select auth_user(public)
3. When you click “Execute”, you should see your newly created superuser details displayed. This   confirms your tables have been created and you can add data to your database.

 Gitpod

1. In settings.py change this line to ACCOUNT_EMAIL_VERIFICATION = 'none'.
2. Change database in settings to an if statement:
    if 'DATABASE_URL' in os.environ:
    DATABASES = {
        'default': dj_database_url.parse(os.environ.get('DATABASE_URL'))
    }
else:
    DATABASES = {
        'default': {
            'ENGINE': 'django.db.backends.sqlite3',
            'NAME': os.path.join(BASE_DIR, 'db.sqlite3'),
        }
    }
3. Install gunicorn in the terminal : pip3 install gunicorn
4. pip freeze > requirements.txt
4. Create a Procfile o tell Heroku to create a web dyno.
    web: gunicorn sisterresincrafts.wsgi:application
5. Install Heroku in the terminal: npm i -g heroku

Heroku
1 . Scroll down to the API Key section, then click on the 'reveal' button, and copy the API Key.

Gitpod
1. Login into heroku : heroku login -i
2. Type in your email address, and when prompted for your password, right-click and select paste in  the API key.
3. Type 'heroku config:set DISABLE_COLLECTSTATIC=1 -a sister-resin-crafts' in the terminal.
4. Add the hostname of our Heroku app to allowed hosts in settings.py
    ALLOWED_HOSTS = ['sister-resin-crafts.herokuapp.com',
                '8000-mcnic16-sisterresincraf-dekxparl9be.ws-eu101.gitpod.io']
5. Type 'heroku git:remote -a sister-resin-crafts' in the terminal
6. git add, git commit, git push then git push heroku main

Heroku
1. 



    

# Credits

Commit message:

updated deployment on readme file and settings

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">Sister Resin Craft</h1>

[View live project]()

"Sister Resin Crafts" -  4th  Milestone Project.



<h2>Screenshots:</h2>


# UX
The purpose of this site is to be an e-commerce web application with a fully functional payment system
and authentication system including email confirmations and user profiles. The superuser of the site will have the ability to create, edit and delete items. A registered user of the site will be able to browse the items and place them in a shopping bag and purchase them.
It is designed to be responsive for mobile, tablet and work on all modern browers.
The target audience for this site is for people who like something different from the normal, such as slasher coasters.

# User Stories
The goals of the business are:
1.  Increasing traffic from social media
2.  Creating more content
3.  Customer satisfaction
4.  Loyalty among customers
5.  Growing our online presence
6.  To have growth
7.  To have a good reputation for potential new customers


As a customer I want to:
1.   Learn the background of the company.
2.   For the site to be user friendly and easy to navigate
3.   View a list of products
4.   View details of each product
5.   Easy access to special offers
6.   To keep track on my spending
7.   To Register an account and easily log in and out
8.   To know the refund policy and the terms and conditions
9.   Recover my password
10.  Reviews and ratings from other customers to be easy to locate
11.  To recieve email conformation after registration and after an order
12.  Search for an item
13.  Not to have annoying pop ups
14.  Easy to purchase Items
15.  Easy navigation to Social Media links


As a returning customer I want:
1.  To see the website has been updated and what new items are available
2.  To easily find any promotional offers available including sales.
3.  To be able to contact company directly with any queries or customer order




# Design

## Framework

## Colour Scheme

## Typography

## Icons

## Wireframes

Coasters/Other items/Seasonal page: 

<img src="wireframes/coasterspage.jpg" width="400px">

Home page:

<img src="wireframes/homepage.jpg" width="400px">

## Features


# Technologies Used
Django
allauth==0.41.0 
Pillow
Crispy Forms
Stripe
django-countries

## Front-End


## Back-End

## Libraries


## Testing


### HTML validator
[W3C Markup Validator](https://validator.w3.org/)
All screenshots for testing can be seen in the test folder.



### CSS validator
[W3C Markup Validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator


### PEP8 validator
[W3C Markup Validator](https://www.pythonchecker.com/)


# Compatibility and Responsiveness

# Bugs

# Deployment

ElephantSQL
1. Log in to ElephantSQL.com to access your dashboard.
2. Click “Create New Instance”
3. Give your plan a Name (sister resin crafts)
4. Select the Tiny Turtle (Free) plan
5. Leave the Tags field blank
6. Select “Select Region” which is Europe-west2(London)
7. Then click “Review”
8. Check your details are correct and then click “Create instance”
9. Return to the ElephantSQL dashboard and click on the database instance name for this project
10. In the URL section, clicking the copy icon will copy the database URL to your clipboard.

Heroku 
1. Click New to create a new app
2. Give the app a name(sister-resin-crafts) and select the region closest to you(Europe). When    you’re done, click Create app to confirm.
3. Open the Settings tab
4. Add the config var DATABASE_URL, and for the value, copy in your database url from ElephantSQL

Gitpod
1. In the terminal, install dj_database_url and psycopg2:
    pip3 install dj_database_url==0.5.0 psycopg2
2. Update the requirements.txt file with the newly installed packages:
    pip freeze > requirements.txt
3. In the settings.py file, import dj_database_url underneath the import for os
    import os
    import dj_database_url
4. Scroll to the DATABASES section and update it to the following code, so that the original connection to sqlite3 is commented out and we connect to the new ElephantSQL database instead:
    # DATABASES = {
    #     'default': {
    #         'ENGINE': 'django.db.backends.sqlite3',
    #         'NAME': os.path.join(BASE_DIR, 'db.sqlite3'),
    #     }
    # }
     
    DATABASES = {
     'default': dj_database_url.parse('your-database-url-here')
    }

5. In the terminal, type python3 manage.py showmigrations
6. Migrate the database models to the new database using python3 manage.py migrate
7. Load in the fixtures, categories first.
    python3 manage.py loaddata categories
    python3 manage.py loaddata products
8. Create a superuser for your new database
    python3 manage.py createsuperuser
9. Delete database from settings.py and reconnect to the local sqlite database.
    DATABASES = {
     'default': {
         'ENGINE': 'django.db.backends.sqlite3',
         'NAME': os.path.join(BASE_DIR, 'db.sqlite3'),
     }
 }
 
 ElephantSQL

1. On the ElephantSQL page for the database, in the left side navigation, select “BROWSER”
2. Click the Table queries button, select auth_user(public)
3. When you click “Execute”, you should see your newly created superuser details displayed. This   confirms your tables have been created and you can add data to your database.

 Gitpod

1. In settings.py change this line to ACCOUNT_EMAIL_VERIFICATION = 'none'.
2. Change database in settings to an if statement:
    if 'DATABASE_URL' in os.environ:
    DATABASES = {
        'default': dj_database_url.parse(os.environ.get('DATABASE_URL'))
    }
else:
    DATABASES = {
        'default': {
            'ENGINE': 'django.db.backends.sqlite3',
            'NAME': os.path.join(BASE_DIR, 'db.sqlite3'),
        }
    }
3. Install gunicorn in the terminal : pip3 install gunicorn
4. pip freeze > requirements.txt
4. Create a Procfile o tell Heroku to create a web dyno.
    web: gunicorn sisterresincrafts.wsgi:application
5. Install Heroku in the terminal: npm i -g heroku

Heroku
1 . Scroll down to the API Key section, then click on the 'reveal' button, and copy the API Key.

Gitpod
1. Login into heroku : heroku login -i
2. Type in your email address, and when prompted for your password, right-click and select paste in  the API key.
3. Type 'heroku config:set DISABLE_COLLECTSTATIC=1 -a sister-resin-crafts' in the terminal.
4. Add the hostname of our Heroku app to allowed hosts in settings.py
    ALLOWED_HOSTS = ['sister-resin-crafts.herokuapp.com',
                '8000-mcnic16-sisterresincraf-dekxparl9be.ws-eu101.gitpod.io']
5. Type 'heroku git:remote -a sister-resin-crafts' in the terminal
6. git add, git commit, git push then git push heroku main

Heroku
1. On the deploy tab set it to connect to github.
2. Search for my repository (sister-resin-craftsjune03) and then click connect.
3. Enable automatic deploys.
4. Generate a random secret key number.
5. In the config vars add SECRET_KEY with the new number

GitPod
1. Change the following variables in settings:
    SECRET_KEY = os.environ.get('SECRET_KEY', '') 
    DEBUG = 'DEVELOPMENT' in os.environ

AWS amazon services
1. Search for s3, in s3 create a bucket.
2. Type in the name for the bucket (sister-resin-craftsjune03)
3. aws region = London
4. Enable ecl
5. untick Block all public access
6. Click on Create Bucket
7. click on bucket :sister-resin-craftsjune03
8. Go to properties  and 




    

# Credits
